# Chapter 2 : Variable , Data Type and Print()

```
Note: In this chapter you'll learn about the different kinds of data you can work with in your python programs.
You'll also learn how to use variables to represent data in your programs and also benefits of IDE's Also.
```
# Benefits Of IDE's : 

- Let's takes a close look at what Python does when you run <mark>hello_world.py.</mark>

`hello_world.py         print("hello python world!")`<br><br>
` output:   Hello Python world! `

- When you run the file hello_world.py, the ending(.py) indicates that the file is python program.
- As you write your programs, your editor highlights different parts of your program in different ways. For example , it recognizes that <mark> print() </mark> is the name of a function and displays that word in one color.
- It recognizes that "Hello world!" is not python code and displays that phrase in a differnt color. 

- This feature is called <mark> syntax highlighting.</mark> and it quite useful as you start to write your own program.

# Variables In Python 

- Variables are used to hold data during execution of the program.
- Variables as labels that you can assign to values . You can also says that a variable references a certain value.
- In C, C++ you need to declare variables only after declaration you can use them. eg.

```
int a = 13
float b = 14.5 
char c  = 'A'
```
- <mark>In python you don't declare variables.</mark> If there is a need of a variable you think of names and start using it as a variable. Eg. 

```
->  a = 11
->  b = 13.5
->  c = 'hello world!'
->  d = True
->  e = None
```
``` 
* hello_world.py      
                
        message = "hello Python World!
        print(message)

output => 
            Hello Python World!
```

- Here we added a variable named message. Every variabale is connected to a value , which is the information associated with that variable.
- In this case the value is the " Hello Python World!" text.

# Naming And Using variables { Variables Name Rules}

- When you're using variables in python , you need to follow few rules and Guidelines.

- Breaking some of these rules will cause errors, other guidelines just help you write code that's easier to read and understand.

1. Variable names can only contain<mark> letters, numbers , and underscore. {abc..,ABC..,123....,_}</mark>

2. They can start with a letter or an underscore, but not with a number . For example : 
```
     message_1                --> NO Error 
     _message1                --> No Error
     1_message                --> Error
```
3. Space are not allowed in variable names, but underscores can be used to seperate words in variable names. For eg. 

```
greeting_message         # No error underscore assume as space.
greetin message           # Throw error space not allowed in variable.
```
4. Avoid using python keywords and function names as variable names.<br>
For example , do not use the word print as a variable name. Python has reserved it for a particular programmatic purpose.

5. Variable names should be short but descriptive. For example , name is better than n , student_name is better than s_n and name_length is better than length_of_persons_name.

# Avoiding Name Error When Using Variables
